reproducibility in data generated by different labs, standardize bioinformatics
pipelines? Esp. DNA sequencing data analysis (taxonomic classification and
databases)
- Errors in databases for 16S sequence classification. How do we correct these
errors?
- If taxonomy (16S) is decoupled from function, will we start to use other markers
to describe bacteria? Costs will probably make metagenome sequencing more
feasible.
- are conserved marker genes the best way to analyze evolution in real time?
Maybe we should start to use primers to barcode multiple genes, MAGs or
whole genome sequences from isolates.
- defining ‘healthy’ condition of microbiomes -- how do we define disease states in
microbiome samples? Even for environmental samples, what is ‘natural/native
state’?
- are we interfering with the system just by observing it? In other words, are our
methods themselves interfering with the functioning of the microbiome?
- how can we understand relative abundance data? How to improve
compositional data and make it absolute values so we can better quantify shifts
in community composition?
- additionally, maybe we should focus on members that don’t change in
composition -- they may be important to community processes too!
- how can we make sure daily fluctuations in lab conditions aren’t affecting our
data?

Aggregate data types so that more hypotheses could be tested by mining them and to model important processesoWhy doesn’t this occur more often?oContinue to improve data accessibilityoValidating models with data (i.e. rapid change in Arctic systems, as the systems change and we have data, were the predictions close?)oStandardized ‘omics datasets are paramount•Continued need for special symposia (like this one!) to exchange and sustain communication on topic areas•Many working groups are emergingoThey are helpfuloHow to align community goals and prioritiesoTransforming them to become a resource we can’t live withoutoHow can we share data faster as the technology continues to improve?•Culturing to grow our understanding of organisms’ behaviors•Apply ecological theories to microbial questions•Is there a better way to link across systems (i.e. abiotic factors that might control microbial processes)?•Linking microbial processes to the landscape scale, where appropriate


1.What are all the possible ecological, evolutionary and biological processes at play in a microbial community?2.How can we correctly (without bias) interpret the massive amounts of data generated during study of microbial systems using molecular methods?3.Which molecular methods are most cost effective and can reveal the most information?4.Do the various model systems being worked on now have common processes?5.How can we use model systems to build theoretical models of more complex real world microbial systems?6.There is a need for an open resource for methods, standards and comparing results



What   are   the   main   life   history   strategies   ?   Can   we   come   up   with   an   ecological classification   of   microbes? ●How   can   we   harness   microbial   community   functions   to   counter   climate   change? ●How   much   the   microbiome   contributes   to   a   host   phenotype   or   ecosystem   function compare   to   other   biological   or   environmental   factors?   How   can   we   quantify   it? ●functional   redundancy:   decreased   richness   is   not   linked   to   decreased   functionality   or is   it?    Can   we   quantify   functional   redundancy? ●Top   down   and   bottom   controls   on   microbiome   structure/composition   from   viruses and   protists   (also   fungal-bacterial   predators)? ●Characterization   of   microdiversity   in   microbial   species/strains   and   its   influence   on microbiome   function ●Need   more   cultivation   based   approach   to   characterize   strains   (including   archaea, fungi,   protists)   -   metabolite   productions,   phenotyping...  to   obtain   a   better understanding   of   basic   ecology   of   many   microorganisms




What are the major transformative questions about microbiome biology that scientists need to address?    a.Determining the applicability and representativeness of model communities that much of our work is based on to actual environmental systems.i.What do they represent?ii.What do they not represent?iii.When and how should they be appliedb.How to increase sharing among groups of model consortiac.What are the rules and characteristics that we should use to define the consortia? (Ratios of species? Metagenomic potential? Phenotypes?)d.How much are model consortia/core microbiome a function of specific methods used to cultivate them?e.Are there universal design principles for all microbiomes?f.How much can metabolic/computational/mathematical models predict interspecies interactions?g.How does the virome fit into the microbiome?i.Ocean bacteria, half are infected so the virome is a huge player


******Reliable Interactomes: Accurately defining true interactions from large complex networks
**Disentangling causes and effects of disease phenotypes
Mapping life-history traits (ecophysiology) onto genomes and/or phylogenetic conservation. (vis a vis: the consenTRAIT type approach)
****How do you predict community phenotypes from genomes if many functions are only seen in a complex community environment (“Reverse ecology”
*****Having readily useable tools to begin assessing how important various biological/virus/ecological/evolutionary factors are in our specific study systems.
**How do we develop biological understanding that enables ethical practices/applications/research
***How do specific and intentional alterations to naturally occurring microbiomes impact species long-term




Introducing microorganisms to a specific environment
	•	Conditions causing microorganisms to either adapt or be pushed out
How does the driving force of microbial community assemblage vary between host-associated environments and environmental ecosystems?  In other words, do all microbial niches follow the same assembly principles?
Is there a way to ensure we are accessing introduced or restored function, if we are considering manipulation for applied tasks, such as bioremediation.
How do we get around the issue of stochastic impacts on predictive power of generating microbiology datasets?  For example, if we sample 100 wells, and most of the wells follow a particular trend, sampling the next well will always have the probability of not demonstrating the most common trend.
What kind of insight can we gain by sampling the environment and then coupling this with isolation work?
Is there a place in the microbiology sphere for pan-metagenome-comparisons.  Pan-genomics comparisons can offer a lot of insight into evolution, but most of these microorganisms are adapting within a mixed community.
How closely intertwined is microbial composition to microbial community function?  Is the 16S always going to be coupled to a particular function.  Even for traditionally function-conserved taxonomy (methanogens, sulfur reducers), is the pathway always present or active?
Standards are a good idea, but we will need to consider standards further upstream in the analysis.  For example, with MAGs, it's easy to have a standard that "Good" is 90% completion, "Medium" is above 70% completion, ect. But if we don't standardize biomarker lists, these metrics are useless, as each list will provide a different completion percentage.




Under what conditions or contexts are the role of viruses important toconsider on the microbiome? (And how do viruses shape microbiomes?Let’s take them out of the black box)●To what degree does community ecology theory apply to microbiomes,and how should it be modified for microbial communities? Especially wehave a need for mechanistic microbe-specific evo-ecological theory.●Community member interactions.○Priority effects - community assembly order. Early recruitment ofparticular microbes / viruses can affect who can be recruited later.



Metabolic outputs / Pathways that occur between microbialconsortia that may not necessarily be imputed from metagenomicdata. Cultureomics




What   are   the   major   transformative   questions   about   microbiome   biology   that scientists   need   to   address? ○How   can   we   manipulate   the   microbiome?   Should   we   manipulate   the microbiome?   Can   we   predictably   manipulate   the   microbiome   to   improve   host outcome? ○What   are   the   functional   characteristics   of   the   microbial   communities   that   are important   for   host   health/   associated   with   disease?   Can   we   manipulate   these functions?   Can   these   functional   characteristics   be   reliably   measured   or   predict disease? ○Can   we   develop   model   communities   for   study   functional characteristics/evolutionary   base? ○Can   probiotics   or   prebiotics   act   as   a   form   of   microbiome   rescue?   But   ->   these   are unpredictable,   individual   variation   is   so   different? ○Rigorous   study   design   is   required    -   vastly   different   geographical   variation,   age, diet,   stress,   environmental   exposures ○Integration   of   data: ■Different   types   of   microbes   -   virus,   fungi,   bacteria,   archaea   and   Host genetics ■Functional   outputs   -   metabolomics,   glycomics,   proteomics ■How   can   all   the   pieces   be   integrated   to   understand   the   system? ○Are   their   early   detections   that   a   microbial   community   is   shifting   towards unfavorable   outcomes   for   the   host   (disease) ○How   to   leverage   existing   data   to   answer   new   questions? ○How   can   we   ensure   multi-omic   data   is   reproducible? ○Tradeoff   between   standards   and   becoming   ‘stuck   in   a   rut’

How   can   we   shift   to   robust   quantitative   measures   of   microbial   composition   and functions? 




What are the biological rules guiding the assembling of microbial communities?•How soil/plantmicrobial communities are responding to climate change?•How are microbial communities interacting with each other?•How much genetic variation vs environmental factors impact host phenotypes?•What is actually determining host phenotypes? What is considered a “normal” baseline?•We need to come up with methodologies to better integrate microbial functional traits with what microbes are present in a given environment.•Standardizing methodologies: sampling, analysis, quantifying diversity, databases, etc



What are the major transformative questions about microbiome biology that scientists need to address?    Amines that supported growth in shale sparked the idea that growth can be really bottlenecked by nutrient availability. Limited in sample sites (eg human microbiome is mostly from affluent, western communities)Metadata collection is really lackingThe interactions between the microbial communities –how do we recognize what the meaningful interactions are? Increasing the number of studies doing cross kingdom analyses would be helpful and more informativeWe have a lot of bioinformatic tools for bacteria, but we’re lacking the tools to do those analyses on the other domains of life in a metagenomeMicrobial community can help the host fitness and survivability of their “hosts”, especially for cropsReproducibility can be expensive and time consuming –the limitations exist, but we don’t talk about them; individual work is also a tradeoff –to do a big study, one has to collect data from many collaborators, and this can be a difficult taskBysetting up a standard of how to do an analysis, for example, you can exclude labs who don’t have those abilities from working on a topic; it can also slow the pressure to develop new and better tools; may be better to state limitations in the paper, but competition can discourage people from stating what those limitations are


do different environments share the same functions--or are all environments sharingthe same functions?what are relevant scales of the microbiome?how do we delineate microbial life history traits?can we use knowledge in one env to better understand other environments?what are the best model systems and how can we transfer results from those to thereal-world?Reproducibility between experiments is an issue that standardized methods couldhelp, better transparency of methods, proper controls, stringent experimental design,how do you compare across gene libraries



Are there broad principles applicable to ANY microbiome?To what degree are functions conserved across microbes? Where (phylogenetically,environmentally) do these patterns break down?How do we utilize genomic data to broadly characterize microbial functions to facilitate a moreunbiased understanding of microbial capabilities across different systems?To what extent do macro-ecological principles(or principles from other disciplines) apply tomicrobiome communities? How do we begin to integrate our thinking to consider newtheories and models?How do we create  the vocabulary and mathematical models neccessary needed to describethese interactions?  Will these approaches be applicable across microbiomes? Will the modelsfor the marine microbiome translate to the human microbiome.●In order for us to develop answers to some of these other pressing questions, we mustfirst share a common lexicon to describe the types of functional, environmental, andphenotypic drivers and interactions to communicate across systems.
How to integrate transkingdom interactions into  our understanding of microbial systems?Need for a common vocabulary to describe the types of functional, environmental, andphenotypic drivers and interactions to communicate across systems.Are we ready to share data and resources  across disciplines in this way?

Emergent features based on interactions. How do interactions between microbes result in the emergent properties of a microbiome.-What are the units of a microbiome. Based on the process were trying to study what level of subdivision is relevant to discuss (i.e. species, strains, functional groups). We want to define units we can talk about in a shared way...name taxonomy is very limiting. How can we all talk about the same thing in a shared and useful way. This is probably based on how we can measure stuff (what is the resolution of our technology). Top down is harder to do this, but with bottom up its easy to say we put thesethree species in. -We saw in cordero’s talk that even with the genomes, it was veryhard to predict the phenotype from the genotype. So having genomes may actually not solve the problem at all, but it does seem to provide one piece of the puzzle that can be used as a predictive feature for how microbes behave. -We need to have universal data platforms where people are cataloging their observations about phenotype and genotype. Some sort of group decision on how things would be sequenced and what type of functional assesemt is done. Earth microbiome project has some decent level of this. What samples are 16s sequence seen in and which ones are they not. How can we generate this for metagenomic data and genomes from metagenomes. There should be delineation between natural 
experiments (ecological samples) and synthetic or constructed communities.-Are we really sampling communities or do most microbes just actually exist on their own. Are more microbes actually all interacting in a dense interactive community or do they actually live a more solitary lifestyle. How can we test interactions in highthroughput? Is it 1% of microbes doing all the work while the restchill out or provide background support. Is this different based ondifferent environments. HOW DO WE TRACE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN MICROBES IN HIGH THROUGHPUT?! WHAT TECHNOLOGY DO WE NEED TO ASSES WHICH MICOBES ARE CONTRIBUTING TO A HYPOTHESIS OR ECOLOGICAL FEATURE?!-The term strain/species is problematic. Do we need to move froma discrete concept of defining organism groups or taxonomy to a more continuous taxonomic definition.



1)Inspired by the fly microbiometalk-Determining spatial patterningand biogeography of microbes presentin gut microbiomes–also differences across individuals, how/ifmicrobiomes are shared, and when microbiomes are swapped what is the response. 2)can Microbiome data be paired with the host data and understand the interactions between host/microbesas well as interactions between microbiomes on an individual. 3)Diversity and structure in microbiome communities ex. (number of members in drosophila gut vs human gut) what determines the number of species and the extent of the diversity. 4)Is the microbiome generalizable to some extentacross different hosts? Can we generalizethe ecology of assortedmicrobiomes to make models?Also, Important to linkcommunityto function, going beyond what’s microbes are presentand understanding what the specific job of themicrobeis. 5)Within species variation,focusing on lessspecies-diverse microbiomesto be able to resolvewithin-species variation.6) Understanding the environments in the gut and understanding“what arethe most importantenvironmental factors driving evolution withinthe microbiome?”How even to determine what the candidate factors should be, machine learning?7)Making sure Microbiome isincorporatedintothe curriculum, ensuring thatASM hascurriculum guidelinesfor microbiome education. 
8)Intraspecific diversity, plant ecology is also looking intraspecific differences and the importance of intraspecific diversity on communities. Further, how to get out of our silosand whatother scientific communitiescan we learn from and draw inspiration from?Not just withinmicrobiology, but across all biology. What can welearn from, for example,plant biologists about community assembly?9)Data-storage and processing. Improve the efficiency,more and more importantas we move beyond 16S. Data is getting bigger and bigger, some datasets on JGI can behundreds of GB. How do we make these datasets accessiblein a reasonable way?10) Making computational analysis more accessible.11)Understanding in-house contaminants and making sure to know what background noise looks like. How to ensurewe are using the correct negative controls and we aren’t making incorrect associations?


How does “microdiversity” (intraspecific variation) influence the abundance & nature of different species interactions? What is the relative importance of microdiversity vs. species differences, etc. for species interactions?
How can we identify tractable methods using both omics and culture-based methods to identify those interactions?
How do emergent properties of the community arise from species interactions? Is it the interactions themselves that contribute to community functioning/emergent properties? Or is it ultimately the community composition that matters? 
Is there such a thing as an “equilibrium” microbiome? 
Has a lot to do with different temporal and spatial scales
What controls variation in microbiome structure & function? Different abiotic and biotic drivers of variation. Step 1) What disperses into a “clean” environment? Step 2) Can they survive once they get there?
What are the relative roles of ecology vs evolution?
Is conservation of microbiomes necessarily a good idea? They may be changing for a reason. How do we find that balance?

What are the appropriate timescales in terms of ecological and evolutionary
processes?
● How do we dissect the complexity of the interactions within the microbiome and
how these microbiome-level interactions interact with the host?
o How do we create models of the key processes within these systems to
model the microbiome as a whole?
● What is a healthy microbiome? How do we draw the line between healthy and
not-healthy? Are there biomarkers e.g., inflammation, etc.
● How do we share & manage the vast amounts of microbiome data?
● How to connect the microbiome to host genetics and disease? Is there a difference
between internal diseases (e.g., cancer) versus environmental infections (e.g.,
malaria)
● How do you generalize among different systems? Are there general rules for how
microbiomes assemble across systems? [Earth microbiome; NEON; AgMicrobiome
RNC; …]
● How do we link taxonomy to function? Does it and does it even matter?
● What are the broader scale processes (at the phyla level) and finer scale (at the
species or strain level) processes that determine the niche that a given taxa
occupies? Flipping the question: how conserved (at what phylogenetic level) are
various aspects of the niche? How does this depend on the genetic structure of the
microbes and the genetic architecture of the traits?
● Heritability of the microbiome & the idea of the holobiont. How does the
microbiome respond to stress and over what timescales? E.g., how much do host
epigenetic effects influence the microbiome? What is the role of epigenetic
processes within the microbiome?
● Conservation of the microbiome: what taxa or functions are most at-risk of going
extinct and having adverse consequences on the host/ecosystem? How can we
preserve other lineages of microbes that may remain beneficial e.g., Helibactor
pylorii & ulcers -- beneficial strains present in certain native populations
● How often do beneficial microbes have the potential for causing negative effects?
● How can we predict the consequences of introducing novel microbes or
manipulating the microbiome when we bring them into the field?
● How do we characterize microbiome resilience? How often are the rare members of
the microbiome playing an important role? How do we capture the seasonal
dynamics of these communities to understand their function?

The ability to effectively and durably manipulate gut microbiota. Persistence.
2. How different factors contribute to an ecological niche. For example, nutrients or
growth factors that can distinguish between microbes. Creating a new niche e.g.
giving host a prebiotic along with a probiotic
3. We need more mathematical models (in the context of compositional data, such as
high throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing data) in order to study the microbemicrobe interactions rather than looking at individual taxa.
4. Strain transmission. We know things that correlate to health outcomes, but don’t
understand the timing of specific strains wh

What mechanisms maintain diiersity and species coexistence in microbiomes? Are
these fqndamentally diferent from commqnites of macro-organisms?
 How can we delineate microbial popqlatons commqnites? How important is
popqlaton size for determining popqlaton commqnity dynamics?
 How can we grapple with abqndance giien the limitatons of cqrrent methods?
 What are the eiolqtonary feedbacks between hosts and microbial commqnites? Why
sqpport a complex microbiome?
 What is the relatie importance of stochastc processes in microbiome assembly? 



How much functional redundancy exists across communities? As more strain level diversity is discovered, how do we transition from species/genus level assessments to strain-level functional and metabolic characterization?Are all microbes equally important for host health or are there certain species or functional groups that are more important than others?How much does host genotype impact microbiome dynamics?How can we accurately characterize recombination within natural microbial communities? and how does recombination impact community dynamics?What role does colonization order play in shaping community dynamics?How often does community turnover occur and how does it impact community dynamics?What role do phages play in shaping communities? (this is almost always ignored!)


